Quick Start Instructions - gtm_design

The GTM_DesignSim is a a batch GTM Simulation for Design and Analysis.  It models the dynamics of a 5.5% scale model of
a generic transport aircraft.  It was developed to allow fault accomidating control algorithms to be developed and refined 
in simulation before being tested on an experimental subscale model.  See 

Cunningham, K., Cox, D. E., Murri, D. G., and Riddick, S. E., “A Piloted Evaluation of Damage Accommodating Flight Control Using a Remotely Piloted Vehicle,” AIAA-2011-6451, AIAA Guidance, Navigation, and Control Conference and Exhibit, Portland Oregon, August 2011."   

and the references therein for a summary of the research.  The model, however, was released as open-source and has been
found useful in many other applications where a non-linear large envelope flight-dynamics simulation is required.


Below are some interactive steps that show trimming, linearizing, and plotting results with the simulation.

1) Run the setup script from the top-level directory.  This opens the simulation, sets paths, and trims to a nominal condition. 

2) Trim model to a 3 deg angle-of-attack, level fight, and load resulting variable-set (including the trimmed inputs) into the Simulink model workspace with the following two Matlab commands:

TrimPt=trimgtm(struct('alpha',3.0,  'gamma', 0.0));
loadmws(TrimPt);

3) Start the simulation either with the Simulink menu or with the command 

sim('gtm_design',[0 10]);

4) Plot resulting workspace outputs generated by the NamedStore block located in the top level Simulink model

plot(tout,sout.aux.alpha);

The results should be constant.

5) Set angle-of-attack initial condition to 1 deg, re-simulate and plot response:

MWSnew=seteomic(TrimPt,'alpha',1);
loadmws(MWSnew);
sim('gtm_design',[0 10]);
plot(tout,sout.aux.alpha);

These results should show the vehicle dynamics for a small perturbation off the trim condition.

6) Linearize model and form a continuous linear model about the nominal trim point computed in step-2 and compare freq/damp of longitudinal dynamics to simulated response of step-5

loadmws(TrimPt);
[sys,lonsys,latsys]=linmodel();
damp(lonsys)

Most of the simulation functionality is illustrated in example scripts example1, example2, etc. these should run (after setup) and produce results that compare to the plots in
./docs/plots/example_plots.pdf
